BASH(1)			 General Commands Manual			BASH(1) NAME bash - GNU Bourne-Again SHell SYNOPSIS bash [options] [command_string | file] COPYRIGHT Bash is Copyright (C) 1989-2025 by the Free Software Foundation, Inc. DESCRIPTION Bash is a command language interpreter that executes commands read from the standard input, from a string, or from a file.	 It is a reimplementa‐ tion and	extension of the Bourne shell, the historical Unix command lan‐ guage interpreter.	 Bash also incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh). POSIX is the name for a family of computing standards based on Unix. Bash is	 intended to be a conformant implementation of the Shell and Utilities portion of the IEEE POSIX	specification (IEEE Standard	1003.1). Bash POSIX mode (hereafter referred to as posix mode) changes the shell's be‐ havior where its default operation differs from the standard to strictly conform to the standard. See SEE ALSO below for a reference to a document that details how posix mode affects bash's behavior. Bash can be config‐ ured to be POSIX-conformant by default. OPTIONS All of the single-character shell options documented in the description of the set builtin command, including -o, can be used	 as options when the shell is invoked.	In addition, bash interprets the following options when it is invoked: -c	 If the	-c option is present, then commands are read from the 	 first non-option argument command_string. If there are argu‐ 	 ments after the command_string, the first argument is assigned 	 to $0 and any remaining arguments are assigned to the positional 	 parameters. The assignment to $0 sets the name	of the	 shell, 	 which is used in warning and error messages. -i	 If the -i option is present, the shell is interactive. -l	 Make bash act	as if it had been invoked as a login shell (see 	 INVOCATION below). -r	 If the -r option is present, the shell becomes restricted (see 	 RESTRICTED SHELL below). -s	 If the -s option is present, or if no arguments remain after op‐ 	 tion processing, the shell reads commands from the standard in‐ 	 put. This option allows the positional	parameters to	be set 	 when invoking an interactive shell or when reading input through 	 a pipe. -D	 Print a	 list of all double-quoted strings preceded by $ on the 	 standard output, without	performing any	 expansion.	 This option 	 is intended to be used in shell scripts that are integrated with 	 an external translator (see the TRANSLATIONS section below). -t	 If the -t option is present, the shell will exit after reading 	 one command. -u	 If the -u option is present, unset variables and parameters (ex‐ 	 cept for the special parameters @ and *) are treated as an error 	 when performing parameter expansion.	 If the expansion is used to define the value of another variable, as in x=$y, bash will print an error message,

